Glossary

DHCP
   The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is used to
   automatically assign an

   IP

    address to a network device. Some DHCP servers only accept known
   devices. In this case, an administrator needs to configure the DHCP
   server with the fixed

   MAC address

    of a device.

DNS
mDNS
   The Domain Name Server (DNS) manages the host names and

   IP

    addresses of all network devices. It is responsible for resolving
   the host name into the IP address for communication with a device.
   A DNS can be configured to get this information automatically when
   a device appears on a network or manually by an administrator. In
   contrast,

   multicast DNS

    (mDNS) works without a central server by querying all devices on a
   local network each time a host name needs to be resolved. mDNS is
   available by default on Linux and Mac operating systems and is used
   when ‘.local’ is appended to a host name.

GenICam
   GenICam is a generic standard interface for cameras. It serves as a
   unified interface around other standards such as

   GigE Vision

   , Camera Link, USB, etc. See

   http://genicam.org

    for more information.

GigE
   Gigabit Ethernet (GigE) is a networking technology for transmitting
   data at one gigabit per second.

GigE Vision
   GigE Vision® is a standard for configuring cameras and transmitting
   images over a

   GigE

    network link. See

   http://gigevision.com

    for more information.

IMU
   An Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) consists of three accelerometers
   and three gyroscopes that measure the linear accelerations and the
   turn rates in all three dimensions.

INS
   An Inertial Navigation System (INS) is a 3D measurement system
   which uses inertial measurements (accelerations and turn rates) to
   compute position and orientation information. We refer to our
   combination of stereo vision and inertial navigation as stereo INS.

IP
IP address
   The Internet Protocol (IP) is a standard for sending data between
   devices in a computer network. Every device requires an IP address,
   which must be unique in the network. The IP address can be
   configured by

   DHCP

   ,

   Link Local

   , or manually.

Link Local
   Link Local is a technology where network devices associate
   themselves with an

   IP address

    and check if it is unique in the local network. Link Local can be
   used if

   DHCP

    is unavailable and manual IP configuration is not or cannot be
   done. Link Local is especially useful for connecting a network
   device directly to a host computer. By default, Windows 10 reverts
   automatically to Link Local if DHCP is unavailable. Under Linux,
   Link Local must be enabled manually in the network manager.

MAC address
   The Media Access Control (MAC) address is a unique, persistent
   address for networking devices. It is also known as the hardware
   address of a device. In contrast to the

   IP address

   , the MAC address is (normally) permanently given to a device and
   does not change.

SDK
   A Software Development Kit (SDK) is a collection of software
   development tools or a collection of software modules.

SGM
   SGM stands for Semi-Global Matching and is a state-of-the-art
   stereo matching algorithm which offers brief run times and a great
   accuracy, especially at object borders, fine structures, and in
   weakly textured areas.

SLAM
   SLAM stands for Simultaneous Localization and Mapping and describes
   the process of creating a map of an unknown environment and
   simultaneously updating the sensor pose within the map.

UDP
   The User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is the minimal message-oriented
   transport layer of the Internet Protocol (

   IP

   ) family. It uses a simple connectionless transmission model with a
   minimum of protocol mechanism such as integrity verification (via
   checksum). The

   rc_visard

    uses UDP for publishing its

   estimated dynamical states

    via the

   rc_dynamics interface

   . To receive this data, applications may use datagram sockets to
   bind to the endpoint of the data transmission consisting in a
   combination of an

   IP address

    and a service port number such as "192.168.0.100:49500", which is
   typically referred to as a

   destination

    of an rc_dynamics data stream in this documentation.

URI
URL
   A Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) is a string of characters
   identifying resources of the

   rc_visard

   ’s REST-API. An example of such a URI is
   "/nodes/rc_stereocamera/parameters/fps", which points to the "fps"
   run-time parameter of the stereo camera component.

   A Uniform Resource Locator (URL) additionally specifies the full
   network location and protocol, i.e., an exemplary URL to locate the
   above resource would be
   "https://<rcvisard>/api/v1/nodes/rc_stereocamera/parameters/fps"
   where "<rcvisard>" refers to the

   rc_visard

   ’s

   IP address

   .

XYZ+quaternion
   Format to represent a pose. See

   XYZ+quaternion format

    for its definition.

XYZABC format
   Format to represent a pose. See

   XYZABC format

    for its definition.
