Stereo vision

The

rc_visard

 is based on

stereo vision

 using the

SGM

 (

Semi-Global Matching

) method. In stereo vision, 3D information about a scene can be
extracted by comparing two images taken from different viewpoints. The
main idea behind using a camera pair for measuring depth is the fact
that object points appear at different positions in the two camera
images depending on their distance from the camera pair. Very distant
object points appear at approximately the same position in both
images, whereas very close object points occupy different positions in
the left and right camera image. The object points' displacement in
the two images is called

disparity

. The larger the disparity, the closer the object is to the camera.
The principle is illustrated in

Fig. 17

.


Stereo vision is a form of passive sensing, meaning that it emits
neither light nor other signals to measure distances, but uses only
light that the environment emits or reflects. Thus, the Roboception
products utilizing this sensing principle can work indoors and
outdoors and multiple devices can work together without interferences.

To compute the 3D information, the stereo matching algorithm must be
able to find corresponding object points in the left and right camera
images. For this, the algorithm requires texture, meaning changes in
image intensity values due to patterns or the objects' surface
structure, in the images. Stereo matching is not possible for
completely untextured regions, such as a flat white wall without any
visible surface structure. The

SGM

 stereo matching method used provides the best trade-off between
runtime and accuracy, even for fine structures.

The following software components are required to compute 3D
information:

Stereo camera: This component is responsible for capturing
synchronized stereo image pairs and transforming them into images
approaching those taken by an ideal stereo camera
(rectification)\:(Section \ref{stereo_camera:sect-stereo-camera}).

Stereo matching: This component computes disparities for the rectified
stereo camera pair using SGM\:(Section \ref{stereo_matching:sect-
stereo-matching}).

For stereo matching, the position and orientation of the left and
right cameras relative to each other has to be known with very high
accuracy. This is achieved by calibration. The

rc_visard

's cameras are pre-calibrated during production. However, if the

rc_visard

 has been decalibrated, during transport for example, then the user
has to recalibrate the stereo camera:

Camera calibration: This component enables the user to recalibrate the
rc_visard's stereo camera\:(Section \ref{camera_calibration:sect-
camera-calibration}).
