Camera calibration

The camera calibration module is a base module which is available on
every

rc_visard

.

To use the stereo camera as measuring instrument, camera parameters
such as focal length, lens distortion, and the relationship of the
cameras to each other must be exactly known. The parameters are
determined by calibration and used for image rectification (see

Planar rectification

), which is the basis for all other image processing modules. The

rc_visard

 is calibrated at production time. Nevertheless, checking calibration
and recalibration might be necessary if the

rc_visard

 was exposed to strong mechanical impact. The camera calibration
module is responsible for checking calibration and recalibrating.

Self-calibration

The camera calibration module automatically runs in self-calibration
mode at a low frequency in the background. In this mode, the

rc_visard

 observes the alignment of image rows of both rectified images. A
mechanical impact, such as one caused by dropping the

rc_visard

, might result in a misalignment. If a significant misalignment is
detected, then it is automatically corrected. After each reboot and
after each correction, the current self-calibration offset is reported
in the camera module's log file (see

Downloading log files

) as:

   "rc_stereocalib: Current self-calibration offset is 0.00, update
   counter is 0"

The update counter is incremented after each automatic correction. It
is reset to 0 after manual recalibration of the

rc_visard

.

Under normal conditions, such as the absence of mechanical impact on
the

rc_visard

, self-calibration should never occur. Self-calibration allows the

rc_visard

 to work normally even after misalignment is detected, since it is
automatically corrected. Nevertheless, checking camera calibration
manually is recommended if the update counter is not 0.

Calibration process

Manual calibration can be done through the Web GUI's

Camera Calibration

 page under the

Configuration

 tab. This tab provides a wizard to guide the user through the
calibration process.

Note: Camera calibration is normally unnecessary since the

  rc_visard

   is calibrated at production time. Therefore, calibration is only
  required after strong mechanical impacts, such as occur when
  dropping the

  rc_visard

  .

Step 1: Calibration settings

The quality of camera calibration heavily depends on the quality of
the calibration grid. Calibration grids for the

rc_visard

 can be obtained from Roboception.


The

Camera calibration

 module has to be selected in the

Web GUI

 under the

Configuration

 tab to verify or perform camera calibration. In the first step, the
calibration grid must be specified. The

Next

 button proceeds to the next step.

Step 2: Verify calibration

In the second step, the current calibration can be verified. To
perform the verification, the grid must be held such that it is
simultaneously visible in both cameras. Make sure that all black
squares of the grid are completely visible and not occluded. A green
check mark overlays each correctly detected square. The correct
detection of the grid is only possible if all of the black squares are
detected. After the grid is detected, the calibration error is
automatically computed, and the result is displayed on the screen.


Some of the squares not being detected, or being detected only briefly
might indicate bad lighting conditions, or a damaged grid.

Note: To compute a meaningful calibration error, the grid should be
  held as closely as possible to the cameras. If the grid only covers
  a small section of the camera images, the calibration error will
  always be less than when the grid covers the full image.

The typical calibration error is below 0.2 pixels. If the error is in
this range, then the calibration procedure can be skipped. If the
calibration error is greater, the calibration procedure should be
performed to guarantee full sensor performance. The button

Next

 starts the procedure.

Warning: A large error during verification can be due to
  miscalibrated cameras, an inaccurate calibration grid, or wrong grid
  width or height. In case you use a custom calibration grid, please
  make sure that the grid is accurate and the entered grid width and
  height are correct. Otherwise, manual calibration will actually
  decalibrate the cameras!

Step 3: Performing calibration

The camera's exposure time should be set appropriately before starting
the calibration. To achieve good calibration results, the images
should be well-exposed and image noise should be avoided. Thus, the
maximum auto-exposure time should be great enough to achieve a very
small gain factor, ideally 0.0 dB. The gain factor is displayed below
the camera images as shown in

Fig. 56

.


For calibration, the grid has to be held in certain poses. The arrows
from the grid corners to the green areas indicate that all grid
corners should be placed inside the green areas. The green areas are
called sensitive areas. The

Size of Sensitive Area

 slider can control their size to ease calibration as shown in the
screen shot in

Fig. 56

. However, please be aware that increasing their size too much may
result in slightly lower calibration accuracy.

Holding the grid upside down is a common mistake made during
calibration. Spotting this in this case is easy because the green
lines from the grid corners into the green areas will cross each other
as shown in

Fig. 57

.


Note: Calibration might appear cumbersome as it involves holding the
  grid in certain predefined poses. However, these poses are required
  to ensure an unbiased, high-quality calibration result.

Monocalibration

Full calibration consists of calibrating each camera individually
(monocalibration) and then performing a stereo calibration to
determine the relationship between them. In most cases, the intrinsic
calibration of each camera does not get corrupted. For this reason,

Skip Monocalibration

 in the

Calibrate

 tab should be clicked to skip monocalibration during the first
recalibration. Continue with the guidelines given in the next Section

Stereo calibration

. If stereo calibration yields an unsatisfactory calibration error,
then calibration should be repeated without skipping monocalibration.

The monocalibration process involves five poses for each camera as
shown in

Fig. 58

.


After the corners or sides of the grid are placed on top of the
sensitive areas, the process automatically shows the next pose
required. When the process is finished for the left camera, the same
procedure is repeated for the right one.

Stereo calibration

After monocalibration is completed or has been skipped, the stereo
calibration process is started. During stereo calibration, both
cameras are calibrated to each other to find their relative rotation
and translation.

First, the grid should be held closer than 40 cm from the sensor. It
must be fully visible in both images and the cameras should look
perpendicularly onto the grid. A green outline that stays in the image
indicates that the algorithm accepted the pose.


Next, the grid should be held at least 1 m from the cameras. The small
cross in the middle of the images should be inside of the grid and the
cameras must look perpendicularly onto the grid. A green outline that
stays in the image indicates that the algorithm accepted the pose.


Note: If the check marks on the calibration grid all vanish, then
  either the camera does not look perpendicularly onto the grid, the
  green cross in the middle of the images is not inside the grid, or
  the grid is too far away from the camera.

Step 4: Storing the calibration result

Clicking the

Compute Calibration

 button finishes the process and displays the final result. The
indicated result is the mean reprojection error of all calibration
points. It is given in pixels and typically has a value below 0.2.

Pressing

Save Calibration

 applies the calibration and saves it to the sensor.

Note: The given result is the minimum error left after calibration.
  The real error is definitely not less than this, but could in theory
  be larger. This is true for every camera-calibration algorithm and
  the reason why we enforce holding the grid in very specific poses.
  Doing so ensures that the real calibration error cannot
  significantly exceed the reported error.

Warning: If a hand-eye calibration was stored on the

  rc_visard

   before camera calibration, the hand-eye calibration values could
  have become invalid. Please repeat the hand-eye calibration
  procedure.

Parameters

The module is called "rc_stereocalib" in the REST-API.

Note: The camera calibration module's available parameters and
  status values are for internal use only and may change in the future
  without further notice. Calibration should only be performed through
  the Web GUI as described above.

Services

Note: The camera calibration module's available service calls are
  for internal use only and may change in the future without further
  notice. Calibration should only be performed through the Web GUI as
  described above.
