Sensor dynamics

In addition to providing 3D information about the scene, the

rc_visard

 can also estimate its

egomotion

 or

dynamic state

 in real time. This comprises its current pose, i.e., its position and
orientation relative to a reference coordinate system or reference
frame, as well as its velocity and acceleration. Measurements from
stereo visual odometry (SVO) and the integrated Inertial Measurement
Unit (

IMU

) are fused to compute this information. This combination is called a
Visual Inertial Navigation System (V

INS

).

Visual odometry observes the motion of characteristic points in the
camera images to estimate the camera motion. Object points are
projected on different pixels in the camera image depending on the
camera's viewing position. Each point's 3D coordinates can also be
computed using stereo matching between the point positions in the left
and right camera images. Thus, for two different viewing positions A
and B, two sets of corresponding 3D points are computed. Assuming a
static environment, the motion that transforms one set of points into
the other is the camera's motion. The principle is illustrated for a
simplified 2D case in

Fig. 17

.


Since visual odometry relies on image-data quality, motion estimates
deteriorate when the images are blurred or are poorly illuminated.
Furthermore, visual odometry's frame rate is too low for control
applications. That's why the

rc_visard

 has an integrated Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), which measures the
accelerations and angular velocities that occur when the

rc_visard

 moves. It also measures acceleration due to gravity, which gives
global orientation in the vertical direction. Further, IMU
measurements have a high rate of 200 Hz. The

rc_visard

's linear velocity, position, and orientation can be computed by
integrating the IMU measurements. However, the integration results
suffer from increasing drift over time. The

rc_visard

 thus fuses accurate, but low-frequency and sometimes volatile visual
odometry measurements with reliable high-rate  IMU measurements to
provide an accurate, robust, high-frequency estimate of the

rc_visard

's current position, orientation, velocity, and acceleration, which
can be used in a control loop.

In addition to the stereo camera component and the calibration
component, pose-estimate computations require the following

rc_visard

 software components:

Sensor dynamics: This component handles starting, stopping, and
streaming of the estimates for the individual components\:(Section
\ref{dynamics:sect-dynamics}).  Visual odometry: This component
computes a motion estimate from the camera images\:(Section
\ref{stereo_visodo:sect-visual-odometry}).  Stereo INS: This component
fuses the motion estimates from visual odometry with the measurements
from the integrated IMU to provide real-time pose estimates at a high
frequency\:(Section \ref{stereo_ins:sect-stereo-ins}).  SLAM: This
component is optionally available for the rc_visard and creates an
internal map of the environment, which is used to correct pose
errors\:(Section \ref{slam:sect-slam}).
